---
title: 'So, what is this thing?'
description: 'A disorganized stream of thoughts about the purpose of this project'
pubDate: 'Feb 17 2024'
heroImage: '/images/20240216.jpg'
---

## Some background

I've been making music since the late aughts (there is no more pretentious way to write that). Pretty early on I was interested in the idea of dialing in the exact amount of time for things. Before I was ever interested in any kind of web coding I made some excel cheat sheets to quickly get quantized values for any bpm. I like changing these values to bump samples just ahead or behind transients happening on the quantized beat etc. And yes, an excel sheet could still work and maybe you even have your own :P

Eventually, I wanted to try my hand at programming to make my own projects. This whole idea of making a bpm table for delays has been done many times but this one is mine. It's a little bit like my own 'Hello World' app where I've always made some iteration of it in whatever language I've dabbled in. Fast forward a small amount and I recklessly deluded myself into thinking that I could become a full time web developer to make more money and have more time to my hobbies (like making choons). LEARN REACT is a meme I took too seriously and made the first iteration of this app. [You can see for yourself if you *really* want to.](https://heuristic-ritchie-6e0337.netlify.app/)

## Some now

I did eventually become a full time web developer but I'm actually making considerably less money currently AND I have even less time for hobbies. Anyway, I've learned a lot about life and a little about web development along the way so I had to make a new version of the BPM app. I'm actively putting in some time each week to refine the tools on the main page until I'm happy with them. I finally have this blog as a place to write and publish some thoughts on various music related things. And I've got a great domain to tell people about how to use these references and tools.

## Some future

My aim is to eventually have a small amount of recurring traffic as users who are utilizing these tools. I find them helpful so I hope that you do too. For the forseeable future this is not a site that I'm trying to make money from of funnel anyone into some bullshit. The internet kind of sucks now and instead of harvesting user data and making every visiter part of the product I hope to use this site as a launching point to tell people about other artists that inspire me and my own music project endeavors.
